#### We didn't cover:
  - voting
  - buffer-overflow
  - location based privacy
  - cyberlaw
  - VPNs
  - TOR
  - Quantom computing
  - Cryptocurrency
  - International data sharing
  - RFIC
  - HTML5 Security
  - Hardware hacking
  - ...Much more to talk about.


#### Let's talk about striking attackers back:
  - _Alex Gould_: I would. Self-defense is key since someone was directly
  attacking you.
  - _Matt Long_: we as targets are just by-products, attacking back could cause
  escalation.
  - _Eliza_: For the sake of closure, striking back makes sense -- law
  enforcement agencies
  - _Nick_: Attacking back could expose you -- at the end you will get hurt
  more.
  - _Jared_: attribution is tricky, are you striking back at the right person?
  - _Phil_: violates personal code of conduct.
  - _Daniel_: Personally, I can't do much right now -- can't fight back.
  - _Zack_: it's illegal folks.
  - _Meritta_: issue of state agents -- attacking a country? individual? some
  other group?
  - _Arthur_: more cost-effective to improve defense as opposed to attacking
  back.
  - EFF . org, ACLU . org
    * Cyber rights group
    * Ming knows their previous head lawyer.

#### What tools have we used?
  - NMAP
  - Wireshark
  - Ettercap
  - Autopsy and sleuth kit
  - John the Ripper
  - Burp suite

#### Follow up: should these tools be outlawed:
  - _Alex Gould_: Nah dude.
  - _Hannah_: Bad guys will be bad guys -- outlawing tools will not have effect.
  - _Michael Jacobson_: If not international outlaw essentially ineffective.
  - _Shayan_: Outlawing doesn't prevent, but still important.
  - _Meritta_: Outlawing tools will just prevent good guys from learning how to
  defense against.
  - _Brad_: Disturbing how easy it is to get access to malicious tools.
  Script-kiddies can find tools incredibly easy.
  - _James_: Allows for healthy competition in industry -- as criminals get
  smarter so do law agencies.
  - _Katie Grosch_: Same arguments about control. What's up with that.
  - _Eliza_: uneasy about comparison.
  - _Dylan_: bad guys vs. good guys is a terribly simplistic generalization.
  Accessability does affect behavior.
  - _Jared_: A potentially better analogy is disease: we need to do research.
  - _Alex Gould_:  Interesting: NRA thinks Bill Gates should shut down the
  internet. What's up with that?
  - _Brad_: Powerful tools that can be used for bad -- just like guns, you
  need some sort of training. If people are opposed to guns, it's worth
  considering how you could also digitally ruin someone's live.
  - _Lisa_: Just like guns, we should consider what people will actually do
  with the tools.

#### Should encryption be outlawed?
  - _Phil_: No, because wildly impractical for things like on line purchases.
  - _Daniel_: Sounds like old people that don't understand.
  - _Theo_: No.
  - _Richard_: Equivalent to privacy -- access to information.
  - _Bryan_: Conversation has shifted. Government recognizes eavesdropping is
  bad. This is mostly a matter of back doors.
  - _James_: You can't really outlaw -- impractical.
  - _Meretta_: Government doesn't really know what's legal vs. illegal. We
  don't know what we can/can't do with tools.
  - _Jared_: Banning encryption -> no terrorist attacks? Is this really the key
  to peace?
  - _Suzy_: FBI talks about everyone using TOR as nefarious. Who should you be
  installing backdoor for?
  - _Margaret_: seems impossible to ban all encryption.
  - _Michael_: Banning encryption will slow down technology. We can't do online
  banking anymore.
  - _Mary_: Is this really feasible?
  - _Bryan_: Seems like an old-people not understanding the Internet. It's like
  banning "algorithms".
  - _Richard_: cyber communism? Encryption is almost like protection of private
  property.
  - _Nitesh_: Both ISIS and NSA are recommending the same tool.
  - _Dylan_: Banning abstract ideas is not unheard of -- we ban murder. No
  one is saying encryption needs to be removed, it's just a matter of
  increasing security.
  - _Margaret_: Like asking everyone to leave their front door open.
  - _Astro_: Does banning encryption = counter terrorism? Will it achieve the
  end we pursue?
  - _Jared_: Government has done this before in the 90's.
  - _Jared_: To export strong encryption was the same as exporting weapons.
  - _Brad_: Counterexample: banning encryption is like banning public safes.
  Having back doors is dangerous.
  - _Michael Jacobson_: isn't this the same as reducing the access
  terrorists might have to these tools?
  - _Arthur_: A lot of attacks are coordinated through encrypted mediums,
  like SMS. We should get full coverage first.
  - _Theo_: analogous to arrest warrants -- you can search someone's
  apartment, but need a warrant first. This is somewhat similar.
  - _Alex_: We're not scared of encryption, we're scared of what "terrorists
  can do with encryption."
  - _Suzie_: Are any computer experts actually recommending this?
  - _Bryan_: There is non-encrypted data on communication. Metadata. Power
  of inference is plenty powerful here.

#### Snowden: sinner or saint?
  - _Theo_: Not a saint by definition, but did do the right thing.
  - _Zabir_: Good guy. From an international perspective, absolutely the
  right thing. But, security issue for America.
  - _Jared_: The people most in charge of keeping things secret, couldn't
  keep it secret from him. That information could have leaked, for money, to
  enemies of America. This was the best case scenario.
  - _Ming_: I've heard many things from govt companies.
  - _Hannah_: I went through background check procedures, and just got a letter
  in the mail admitting data has leaked.
  - _Alex G._: When I worked at Lincoln motors, they made Snowden into an
  example of what you SHOULDN'T do.
  - _Meritta_: Snowden went in house first. This was his supervisor's fault. He
  purposefully released data that wouldn't put American lives in danger.
  - _Dylan_: We're all talking about all the good that this has done. But,
  what has actually changed post-Snowden? I personally don't know about
  anything.
  - _Brad_: The only thing I think matters, is that the U.S. govt violated the
  law and he reported. The law MUST come first, even for the govt. Liberty for
  Security will give you neither.
  - _Evan_: This is the beginning of the digital age, this is important.
  - _Jared_: The leak put security on the national mindset.
  - _Ming_: Mean Girls is a good movie (remember this folks). Now does anyone
  remember the burn book? In the security committee someone published a burn
  book.
    - Someone please find the link to this.
  - _Alex_: I worked with the govt, and had to sign lots of forms, but then
  the actual tech was really really insecure.
  - _Theo_: part of democracy.
  - _Phil_: Snowden gave up a great life. This is sacrifice.
  - _Arthur_: We've been aware of that forever.
  - _Nitesh_: Nobody really internalized. People published books about
  mass-surveillance. No one was buying it though.


#### Java is safer than c, c++?
  - _Alex_: c has been around for longer, so it's much more vetted. You just
  need to use techniques that have been proven safe. This is obviously better
  than a closed-source VM.
  - _Ming_: Gary Mcgraw said Java doesn't have pointers and is therefore better.
  - uScheme is obviously the best guys.

_Ming_: From day 1 security is a #Fail. SQL injections are still a thing. WTF.
The point of this course was to lead to constructive debate. This is a time
when people can't break bread. Governments included. These days we only really
know code. Code. Make ca$h. Repeat. You will need to learn that engineering is
not everything. You can't just build. The things you build come with
consequences.

#### Current news:
  - Homeland security encryption task force.
  - Congress is putting a spotlight on tech and terrorism.
  - _Meretta_: Now days no one wants to work for the government.
  - _Ming_: active citizenship is not there in tech. People don't feel
  obligated. But, this time around it seems like congress is listening. This
  is a time to make an impact. You should educate those around you.